Care2X - Installation 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This guide explains how to install Care2x using the new automatic installer.

Contents: 
  1. Prerequisites
  2. Download Care2x Package
  3. Automatic Installer
    3.1. Introduction
    3.2. Collect Information
      3.2.1. Database Information
      3.2.2. System Administrator User
      3.2.3. Network Protocol and Domain
      3.2.4. Encryption Keys
    3.3. System Checks
    3.4. License Agreement
    3.5. System Installation
    3.6. Optional Components
    3.7. Finish Installation
  4. Post installation



1. Prerequisites
-------------------

Care2x is a PHP web application. It requires several program components to be 
installed on the system before the installation. This includes:
    * the PHP (http://www.php.net) scripting language;
    * a web server;
    * a database server. 

Check the System Requirements page 
(http://care2x.org/wiki/index.php/System_Requirements) for detailed information 
about the supported component types and versions.


2. Download Care2x Package
-----------------------------

Download the latest Care2x release package from the project's download section 
(http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=53886&package_id=48463). 
Typically, you should download the .zip package for Windows installation and 
the .tar.gz package for Linux/Unix installation.

Extract the downloaded package into the document directory of your web server.

You may extract the package right in the document root directory of your web 
server. In this case Care2x will be accessible with URL http://your_host/, 
where your_host is the host of your server computer.

Or, you may extract the package in a subdirectory of the document root 
directory of your web server. In this case Care2x will be accessible with URL 
http://your_host/sub_dir/, where your_host is the host of your server computer 
and sub_dir is the subdirectory where you have extracted the package.

You may need to restart your web browser to make the Care2x application 
available.


3. Automatic Installer
-------------------------

Open your web browser and access the Care2x automatic installer.

If you have extracted the Care2x package in the web server's document root 
directory then you have to access URL http://your_host/installer/.

Or, if you have extracted the Care2x package in the web server's document root 
subdirectory then you have to access URL http://your_host/sub_dir/installer/.

The welcome page of the Care2x automatic installer will be displayed in your 
web browser.

3.1. Introduction
--------------------

NOTE: During the installation process do not use the navigation buttons (Back, 
Forward, etc.) of your web browser. Instead, use the navigation buttons inside 
the web pages of the automatic installer as described in this guide.

Click on the Continue... hyperlink that will bring you to the Collect 
Information step of the installation process.


3.2. Collect Information
---------------------------

You are asked to give important information that will be used for the 
installation of Care2x.

The information is divided in several categories.


3.2.1. Database Information
------------------------------

Fill the fields with information about your database server that will contain 
the working data of the Care2x system:
    * Server Type. Choose the type of your database server, all available 
database types can be chosen from the drop-down list.
    * User Name. Give the user name of the account to access the database.
    * Password. Give the password of the database user.
    * Server Address. Give the network host/address where the database server 
can be accessed. If you want to specify port of the database server, use the form host:port.
    * Database Name. Give the name of the database instance where Care2x will 
be installed to. If you give the name of an existing database, it will be 
reused, otherwise a database with this name will be created. 

The installation will create more than hundred tables in the database. All 
table names starts with prefix care_. Currently, this prefix cannot be 
configured to another value.

If you want to reuse a database that already contains other tables, make sure 
that there is no table with name starting with prefix care_. Otherwise the 
installation may fail.


3.2.2. System Administrator User
-----------------------------------

The System Administrator is the most powerful (in terms of rights) user of the 
Care2x system. This will be the only user that is available on a freshly 
installed system. It is used for the initial configuration of the system and to 
create other users that will be used in the normal work with the Care2x system.

The System Administrator user is critical for the system. It is very important 
to choose appropriate user name and password and to keep this information 
secure.

The information that you will provide in this section is the login credentials 
of the System Administrator user:
    * User Name. Give login name for the System Administrator user. The default 
is admin. It is highly recommended to choose other name.
    * Password. Give login password for the System Administrator user. The 
default is empty password. It is highly recommended to choose good password 
(http://www.mit.edu/afs/sipb/project/doc/passwords/passwords.html) instead.
    * Confirm Password. Give the same password as in the previous field. This 
is to check that you have entered your password correctly. 


3.2.3. Network Protocol and Domain
-------------------------------------

You have to give some information about your web server configuration.
    * Transfer Protocol. Choose the prefered transfer protocol to access 
Care2x. The default is http. If you have SSL 
(http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/S/SSL.html) module installed with your web 
server and want more secure access to Care2x then choose https.
    * Care2x Host. Enter the host name where Care2x is installed without the 
http:// or https:// part and without a trailing slash. If you leave this blank 
or enter wrong information, you will get problems in storing and displaying 
uploaded images later on. The value should look like care2x_host if Care2x 
resides in the document root directory of your web server, or like 
care2x_host/sub_dir if Care2x resides in a subdirectory of the document root. 
care2x_host should be a host that is accessible from all possible locations 
that will work with the system. 


3.2.4. Encryption Keys
-------------------------

Encryption keys are used to encrypt security sensitive data in the workflow of 
Care2x.

These keys are generated randomly on each installation. It is OK to leave them 
as is, but if you have any meaningful reason you have to possibility to change 
their values.
    * 1st key. Used for simple chaining protection of scripts.
    * 2nd key. Used for accessing modules.
    * 3rd key. Used for encrypting cookie information. 


When you are ready with entering the data, click on the Save button. This will 
bring you to the System Checks step of the installation process.


3.3. System Checks
---------------------

At this point of the installation process the installer runs a set of tests to 
check:
    * if the data you entered in the previous step is correct;
    * if the system meets the requirements to have Care2x installed. 

If all tests are OK (green check mark) then you can continue to the next step 
by clicking on the Continue... hyperlink.

If there is failed test (red check mark) then you cannot continue with the 
installation process. You have to try to fix the problem that causes the test 
to fail. If you succeed then click on the Restart Installation hyperlink to 
start the installation process from the beginning.

If there is test with warning result (yellow check mark) then you can continue 
with the installation process, but there are possibility that you may run into 
problem when using Care2x. If you want to continue with the installation 
process then click on the Continue... hyperlink. If you want first to fix the 
problem causing the warning then click on the Restart Installation hyperlink 
after you fix it. This will start the installation process from the beginning.


3.4. License Agreement
-------------------------

Care2x is distributed under the GNU General Public License 
(http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) (GNU GPL).

Read the license displayed on this page of the installer and decide either to 
agree with the license, or disagree. You have to agree with the license in 
order to proceed with the installation of Care2x.

If you agree with the license then click on the I Agree button. This will start 
the installation of the Care2x system.

If you disagree with the license then click on the I Do NOT Agree button. In 
this case the installer will refuse to proceed with the installation.

More information about the licensing of Care2x you can read on the legal page 
(http://care2x.org/home_legal.php).


3.5. System Installation
---------------------------

Accepting the license triggers the start of the actual installation process. 
As the progress bar moves onwards the installer executes the most important 
installation actions:
    * installs the database schema;
    * fills the database with general configuration data;
    * creates the System Administrator user;
    * saves the system configuration data. 

The above actions should be executed without problem and you will get 
automatically to the next installation step. If for some reason any of the 
above actions fail then the whole installation progress will fail too. The 
error that causes the problem will be displayed. If this happens you can get 
support in the Care2x mailing list 
(http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_id=11772).

NOTE: On some browser (MS Internet Explorer) the progress bar may freeze after 
few seconds. This does not mean that the installer is not taking action. It is 
just the browser that freezes the page rendering because of page refresh 
action. In this case just wait for the browser to refresh the page.


3.6. Optional Components
---------------------------

At this stage of the installation process your system is already operational. 
Here you may install some optional components (ICD10 and OPS301 codes). These 
components are typically large in size and take some time to install, so choose 
only the ones you need.

If you want to install an optional component then choose and click on the 
Install button.

The progress bar indicates the advance of the action. Please, be patient! 
Optional components may be large and they may need some time to install.

After the optional component installs successfully, you may choose to install 
another one.

If you don't want to install more components then click on the Done button to 
finish the installation.


3.7. Finish Installation
---------------------------

The last step of the installation process is to rename critical installation 
files. This is made for security reasons. However, it is highly recommended to 
erase the whole /installer directory.

You can now click on the Start using Care2x hyperlink that will bring you to 
the main page of your freshly installed Care2x system.


4. Post installation
-----------------------

Congratulations! You have completed the installation process of Care2x.

The Care2x system is now installed and you can start working on it.

However, there are some more things to be done. You have to configure Care2x to 
fit the needs of your medical institution. This includes definition of 
departments, wards, doctors, medical products, etc.

Follow the Initial Configuration 
(http://care2x.org/manuals/en_configure_2_1.htm) guide to complete these steps.
 